Early on in the book of Ecclesiastes, Solomon writes the words,
There is nothing new.
Under the sun.
There's nothing new under the sun.
that's an interesting phrase as you get ready to head into a new year.
And so I thought we would think for a little bit about this idea that there is nothing new.
Under the sun,
As we've said throughout the book of Ecclesiastes, we've commented that one of the blessings of the book of Ecclesiastes is the gift,
From the holy spirit
To give words to the feelings that we often are experiencing as we go through the difficulties of this life.
And so perhaps as we stand on the cusp of a new year,
you actually are thinking.
Yeah.
It will be a new year, but...
There's nothing new under the sun.
that life's just going to continue to be exactly the way it's been.
Maybe you're a person who has struggled for years.
with physical illness or with mental illness in 2025 just looks like more.
Of the same
maybe you've had financial problems for longer than you can remember and as you had from twenty twenty four into twenty twenty five you're simply thinking it's going to be.
And to be another year.
Of simply trying to make ends meet.
maybe you're in a marriage that's a challenging and difficult marriage and for a long time things have been broken.
And 2025 looks like more of the same.
More fighting, more distance, more hurting one another.
maybe you're a student.
And you finished the first semester, but he's got the same teacher.
Same classmates waiting for you when you come back after Christmas break is over, and twenty twenty five looks just the same.
As twenty twenty four.
Maybe you look around the world and you see conflict in the middle east.
See conflict in Europe.
Conflict in Africa.
And it feels like nothing has changed. There's nothing new under the sun.
even in america yes there's a new administration coming into power and maybe you're excited about that maybe you're not excited about that but either way you may be looking and saying it doesn't work.
It doesn't really matter who's the president, who's in charge of Congress. There's going to be more divisiveness, more trouble, more corruption, more problems than you might be feeling today.
There's nothing new.
Under
The sun.
When one of the blessings of ecclesiastes does not invalidate, that's an okay way to feel.
It's okay if you're not excited for 2025. It's okay if you feel like you know what? We just keep going through the motions and every year feels
Really similar
But one of the blessings of what God's doing in Ecclesiastes,
Is is that he not only validates our feelings, he also reminds us.
Of truth.
and that truth is sometimes opposite of how we feel.
and when we first looked at that phrase at the beginning of ecclesiastes there's nothing new under the sun.
we also looked at a passage in isaiah where god says i'm making all things new.
And we are reminded that with God there is always,
Something new.
We talked about the difference between a lake and a river.
And a river.
A lake feels very stagnant, feels like there's nothing changing. The lake is sort of the same all the time.
Whereas the river is alive, it's new, it's changing, it's different.
every day and we said life with God is more like a river
And left like a lake.
well as we get ready to enter into a new year.
I want to think a little bit more about something new that God is doing, something specifically new that God is doing.
And how we can respond appropriately to that.
as we enter into 2025. So I've got just two verses for us.
From the New Testament,
They'll be on the screen. The first one.
is 2 Corinthians 5:17.
In this, God says,
Therefore,
If anyone is in Christ,
The new creation has come
The old has gone.
The new
Is here.
now when paul writes this, he says if anyone is in christ.
That's just a way of saying if anyone is a Christian.
That's what the word Christian means. It's a way of saying in Christ. If you are an in Christ person, you are a Christian. And so what this verse is saying is that if you are
If you are a Christian, if you are a believer in Jesus, there is something new that's coming.
in twenty twenty-five your circumstances may not change the sufferings that you're going through may not change but what absolutely guaranteed will change.
Change.
is you.
And me.
That's the promise of this verse. God is always doing new things, and one of the new things that he's doing is he is making us,
A new
Creation.
This is the promise of God and that he is going to continue to do this until Jesus returns.
It's sort of like a creator.
A songwriter who's writing a new song.
Or a builder who's building a new building.
Or a chef who's cooking a new meal.
When you have someone who is creating something, they keep working on it.
They keep adding notes or taking away notes. They keep putting up parts of the structure and doing some of the carpentry. They keep adding ingredients until the thing they are cooking.
Our creating is complete.
So it is with God,
With every Christian.
God is creating something new,
And in 2025,
God is going to be removing some stuff and adding some stuff, changing us, so absolutely there will be something new under the sun.
1 in 2025, and it's you.
And it's me.
And external things may not change, but we absolutely will change.
And you may not know exactly what's coming.
But the promise of God is, if you are a believer in Jesus,
You are his creation.
And he has work he's going to do.
And this next year,
He will be removing some things?
He will be adding some things.
To who you are.
To who I am.
So that we will look more like Jesus this next year.
than we did last year.
With that in mind, that leads us to the second verse I want to share with you this morning.
Words of Jesus in Mark 2:22
Jesus says no one pours out, no one pours new wine into old wineskins.
Otherwise, the wine will burst the skins.
And both the wine and the wineskins will be ruined.
No, they pour new wine.
Into new wineskins
We sing a song here at Calvary called New Wine.
And it opens with the line in the crushing.
In the pressing,
You are making new wine.
It's actually a nice combination of these two verses. This idea in 2 Corinthians 5 that God is making us into new creations. And what Jesus says here is a way to destroy
And to describe that metaphorically is we are new wine. God is making us into new wine, and it requires crushing. It requires pressing. And as we go through that supplement,
It's suffering. God is making us new today.
But Jesus says, because you and I are a new creation, because God is doing something in us that's never been done before, because we will
2025, we will enter 2025, and in 2025, be a new person.
That we have never been before, Jesus says there is something that we must do in light of this truth,
We must.
Embrace,
New wineskins.
See, new wine is alive. it's still sort of fermenting and growing. And if you put new wine into rigid, old, wine skins, it will burst the wine skin.
And so Jesus says, if you are new wine, you have to go into new wineskins.
And what that means in connection with 2 Corinthians 5:17.
Since God is making us into something new,
that's going to require that you and i have new ways of thinking.
New ways of processing what is going on.
One of the great sins of ourselves as individuals of this congregation of this country in which we live is that we are way too reliant on human wisdom.
Wisdom. Wisdom.
We think about things that have happened in the past, and we formulate ideas. we think about things that we've been through, and we come up with plans. we listen to what everybody else has to say and what Jesus is saying.
The saying is that won't work for 2025 because you are going to be a new creation. Yeah.
You're a new person.
Old ways of thinking will not work. Old patterns, old experiences, old habits that you've gone through, old advice that you've listened to. This is what we've got.
What we've been doing as we go through the book of Ecclesiastes, we are being reminded human wisdom doesn't do any good when God is involved.
Is involved.
And when God is creating something new,
And you try to put it into old boxes.
When you try to fit what God is up to,
Into old categories, old patterns, old advice, all the
Old things that you have heard.
It doesn't work.
So the encouragement is we enter 2025.
Since you and I.
Are being made new.
God says, I am renewing you.
Every day.
Since every day he is making us something new, Jesus' encouragement to us is.
Let go of human wisdom.
Let go of human ways of thinking about things.
And the encouragement for each of us.
In 2025.
Is to spend less time.
Trying to figure out how what's happening in ourselves.
Fits into old categories and old patterns.
And more time inquiring of God and asking the Creator, explain what you are doing in me, through me and to me.
me.
because in twenty twenty-five.
A brand new creation.
That has never existed before.
Will be present.
In your life.
And it's you.
And the only person
Who knows?
what that new creation needs.
What that new creation should be up to.
The only person who knows.
is its creator.
So Jesus says,
In 2025.
Spend less time trying to figure out how your life fits with what everybody else thinks it ought to be.
What you think it ought to be.
What wisdom teaches you, it should be.
And spend more time.
Listening to the Creator.
And letting him,
Say, what he's up to.
So,
If you're a student
Heading back into the exact same classroom,
With the exact same teacher.
And the exact same classmates.
The encouragement this new year is to ask
Your creator.
What new thing are you doing in me?
As I go back into that same classroom with that same teacher and those same classmates,
So that I might think newly about these kinds of things.
as you approach another year in which there may very well be the same financial challenges that you had this past year.
The encouragement is to pause and to ask God, "But God, what new thing are you doing in me?"
So that I can let go of old ways of thinking about money.
and security
And resources.
if you're facing another year of marriage in which you feel like i don't know how this is going to work where two ships passing in the night the question is is to stop.
Stop and say, Lord.
Who is the new me that you are creating in this marriage? How am I going to be a new husband? Or how am I going to be a new wife? And what old way?
Old ways do I need to let go of.
You might think for yourself, when I do this, she does that. When she does this, I do that.
That's old wineskins. And God says, you have to let that go because you're going to be a new person. Yeah.
God is doing something new.
you might have the same physical issues, same mental health issues that you've had for this past year and the year before that and the year before that.
But the promise of God is that he's going to be making you into someone new.
And so the question to ask the lord
Not everybody around you.
The question asked the lord is lord
How are you making me into a new person?
And how can I let go of old patterns?
Old ways of thinking,
Old ways of processing,
Such things.
As we head into the new year, it's easy to feel that there is nothing new.
Under the sun.
Apart from God, there is nothing new under the sun.
But with God.
When you are an in Christ person, when you are a Christian,
You are a new creation, and every day God is making you into someone new.
that has never been on this planet before.
And the encouragement from Jesus is,
Don't take the new you.
And try to fit it into old ways of thinking.
And try to fit it into old patterns. Don't take the new you and try to fit it into the wisdom of the world. Don't take the new you and try to fit it into old expectations of the world.
of everyone around you.
I knew you.
Requires new wineskins.
New ways of thinking.
Given to us directly by the Lord.